AlchemistV3/Transmuter Review
I conducted a review of the AlchemistV3/Transmuter system in a series of
periods, firstly a 1 week review before the fixes to bugs disclosed from
immunefi contest were finalized (but post bug disclosure) and then 1 week
period after the fixes were finalized. For this reason the git commit hashes are
a bit varied. The client requested particular focus on the earmarking and
transmutation accounting system, which is where I have spent most of my
focus. This system allows users to register their synthetic "debt" tokens and
have them be turned back into yield tokens over a preset period. In turn the
global debt and collateral are reduced for all users of the Alchemist leveraging
contract when this happens. In order to facilitate this being done fairly the
code tracks the per block changes in reserved debt and also decays user
debt using a system of weights. Post bug fix updates the user collateral is
reduced using a rate which is set by the total transmutation weight.
Disclaimer: Security review is performed on a best effort basis and some
bugs may remain.
About The Team
Aleph_v is a former mathematician and current cryptographer and security
researcher with 8 years of experience performing security reviews and finding
critical bugs for clients across the blockchain and cryptography industries.
Contact: Twitter - https://twitter.com/alpeh_v (https://twitter.com/alpeh_v) or
Telegram - aleph_v
Findings
Summary: Critical: 0, High: 0, Medium: 0, Low: 1
Findings are presented chronologically:
    Incorrect Remediation to problem resulting in unliquidatable dust
    accounts: In PR #2 the fix for the finding tagged [58456] (rounding
    causes accounts have have dust debt but 0 collateral) the fix checks if
    the collateral will be zero deducting just the liquidated amount and not
    the liquidated amount + fee. This means the check will not prevent cases
    with (collateral = 0, debt = dust) where the liquidation would produce
    (collateral = dust, debt = dust) with fee which zeros account collateral.
         Severity Rating: Low [Likelihood: Low, Impact: Low]
         Remediation Recommendation: Check for collateral = 0 after the fee is
         removed.
         Status: Open
Notes
Very low severity, performance notes, or other non-issue comments
    Code complexity feedback: redeem computes exactly the token balance
    of the transmuter after the current redemption but then after it is called
    from the transmuter the last token balance is manually set by a
    permissioned call from the transmuter. You can therefore remove this
    logic or optionally remove the last token balance field entirely.
    Code complexity feedback: Transmute uses a number of local internal
    variables to track the amount of synthetic which is burned, instead they
    can computer it as position.amount - (syntheticReturned +
    syntheticFee) . This reduces the complexity of the code and prevents

    rounding errors in the extra local variables.
    Code complexity feedback: Transmute tracks the rate of shortfall of the
     redeem call made to the Alchemist via a series of balance calls. Instead

    you could have the redeem call return the value sent and then compute
    the shortfall directly without extra calls, again removing local variables
    and lossy divs.
    Gas/complexity Feedback: In the liquidate function we use the function
     totalValue which uses the function _calculateUnrealizedDebt which is

    designed to compute the result of a sync on the token id, but you already
    call sync on the token id right before you call this function. Instead you
    can just load account.collateral and then converting it using
     convertYieldTokensToUnderlying , this will save both gas and code path

    complexity.
